# Reptile_Group_FunGen2024
This repository includes scripts used to analyze RNA-seq data for *Sceloporus undulatus* from the reptile group from our Spring 2024 Functional Genomics course.

**Manuscript Abstract**

"Due to climate change, reptiles like lizards are exposed to the high temperature and to adapt these changes, their bodies produce HSP, Heat shock protein as an adaptive response. This study seeks to delineate the transcriptomic mechanism of lizards to acute heat stress, utilizing RNA sequencing to uncover the genetic basis underlying these responses. Employing a standardized bioinformatics pipeline as a control, the research critically examines the influence of methodological variations at each step of the analysis on the interpretative outcomes of the transcriptomic data. By systematically altering each stage of the pipeline—from reference genome selection, data cleaning, read mapping, counting of those mapped reads to differential gene expression analysis—the study assesses how these modifications can affect the biological interpretation of the data, potentially leading to different conclusions about the genetic basis of heat stress responses. The project involves datasets from acute heat stress experiments conducted on adult lizards, focusing on their liver transcriptomes, with the aim of identifying core genes and pathways involved in the heat stress response. This approach not only tests the robustness and reproducibility of RNAseq analyses but also enhances our understanding of the biological intricacies of vertebrate resilience to environmental challenges, providing insights into the potential universality and variability of stress responses across different species."

The Standard Pipeline directory contains contains our standard pipeline (with important considerations mentioned in the `readme.md`). Each step in our standard pipeline was altered to test the effects of bioinformatic analysis choices on biological interpretations and conclusions. Each directory contains scripts used in pipeline manipulations.

RNA-seq scripts in this repository are adapted from those in the class [github from Functional Genomics 2024](https://github.com/Schwartz-Lab-at-Auburn/FunGen2024).
